Add marshaller shape docs to docs with more detailed explanations (#47125)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/native-interop/custom-marshaller-shapes.md

---
description: "Learn more about: Value Marshallers in Interop Source Generation"
title: "Custom Marshaller Shapes - Value Marshallers"
ms.date: "07/07/2025"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "unmanaged code, exceptions"
  - "exceptions, unmanaged code"
  - "interop, exceptions"
  - "exceptions, interop"
  - "interop source generation"
  - "custom marshallers"
  - "exceptions, custom marshallers"
---

# Custom Marshaller Shapes

This document describes the different "shapes" of custom marshallers that can be used with the .NET interop source generator.

## Value Marshallers

> This document describes the shapes of custom marshallers that can be used by the .NET interop source generator for marshalling types between managed and unmanaged code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the shapes of custom marshallers that can be used by the .NET interop source generator for marshalling value types between managed and unmanaged code.
```

        /// Takes an unmanaged representation to be converted to a managed type in ToManagedFinally.
        /// Should not throw exceptions.
        /// </summary>
        public void FromUnmanaged(TNative unmanaged);

        /// <summary>
        /// Returns the managed value representation of the unmanaged value.
        /// Should not throw exceptions.
        /// </summary>
        public TManaged ToManagedFinally();

        /// <summary>
        /// Optional.
        /// Frees any unmanaged resources associated with the unmarshalling of the managed type.
        /// Must not throw exceptions.
        /// </summary>
        public void Free();
    }
}
```

### Stateful Bidirectional

```csharp
[CustomMarshaller(typeof(TManaged), MarshalMode.ManagedToUnmanagedRef, typeof(Bidirectional))]
[CustomMarshaller(typeof(TManaged), MarshalMode.UnmanagedToManagedRef, typeof(Bidirectional))]
static class TMarshaller
{
    public struct Bidirectional // Can be ref struct
    {
        // Include members from each of the following:
        // - One Stateful Managed->Unmanaged Value shape
        // - One Stateful Unmanaged->Managed Value shape
    }
}
```

## Collection marshallers

> This section describes the shapes of custom collection marshallers that the .NET interop source generator supports for marshalling collections between managed and unmanaged code. Contiguous collection marshallers are used for collections which are represented as a contiguous block of memory in their unmanaged representation, such as arrays or lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the shapes of custom collection marshallers that the .NET interop source generator supports for marshalling collections between managed and unmanaged code. Contiguous collection marshallers are used for collections that are represented as a contiguous block of memory in their unmanaged representation, such as arrays or lists.
```
